>> Kadi Kraman: So next up,
what would be handy is if we could store
the plant's photo along with its details.
So if we scroll down,
this is what we want to achieve.
So we would like to have a plant
image here that we could pick, and
we could save in our local storage or
in our storage in our file system.
Yeah, we would like to have a plant image
here that we could pick that to go with
the plant's name,
so that would be a little bit more
useful than our placeholder image.
So for this, we're going to use
the Expo ImagePicker library,
and this provides access to the system
UIs for selecting images and
videos from the phone's library.
And you can actually also
use it to take photos.
So if you want to update
this to take photos,
there's some additional instructions here,
we're going to just use the picking
an image from the gallery for now.
But one thing to know that
if you are using the camera,
then you need to request
permissions first.
So there is a useCameraPermissions hook,
and
I think this should be
a requestCameraPermissions.
So before you get access to the user's
camera, you need to actually request
access and you get this native
prompt from the user going like.
Asking them whether they consent
to their camera to be used and
then hopefully they say yes and they
grant permission and then you can use it.
So for the ImagePicker, so
selecting images from the phone's library,
you don't actually need
this permission prompt, so
we'll keep it simple and use that for now.
So let's npx expo install
expo imagepicker,
I will npx expo start to
start my bundle again, yeah.
>> Kadi Kraman: Okay, so what I'd like to
do is when the user taps on this Plantly
image, you can make this UX
a little bit better to actually say
a highlight of like student image,
but let's keep this info.
So when a user taps on
this plant in the image,
it will open the image gallery and
they could choose an image.
So let's go to our new screen.
>> Kadi Kraman: And for
this Plantly image, let's wrap this in,
[COUGH] let's make this pressable.
So let's use a touchable
opacity here instead of a view.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
whenever I do use touchable opacity,
I tend to change
the active opacity because
I find this a little bit too intense,
so let's do active opacity 0.8.
I think that tends to look
a little bit nicer, a little bit.
No, I accidentally took a picture.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
let's add a handler function here as well.
Let's do a handleChooseImage,
and this will be an async function.
>> Kadi Kraman: And when we press on here,
let's do onPress, handleChooseImage.
>> Kadi Kraman: So
first thing we'll do is,
we are not going to implement this for
the web for the time being.
So let's just do if platform,
>> Kadi Kraman: OS is
the web,
>> Kadi Kraman: And
we will just return out of it, otherwise,
we want to launch our ImagePicker.
So let's import * as ImagePicker.
>> Kadi Kraman: from expo-image-picker,
>> Kadi Kraman: And
in our handleChooseImage,
we want to launch the image library.
So let's do const result, so the result
will be the data, so the image URI.
>> Kadi Kraman: And we will do await,
so this is an async function,
and we will launch, sorry, ImagePicker,
and we will launch image library async.
>> Kadi Kraman: And
we can also pass in some properties.
So mediaTypes, what are the kinds
of things that people can add here?
So we don't want them to choose a video,
so let's just say
that we want ImagePicker,
mediaTypeOptions, images.
So we have an option for
images, videos or all.
So in this case,
we just want images, launch that, so
allowsEditing, so
this allows the user to crop the image.
So when they open it
from the image library,
they can also crop the image
to the specified size.
So let's enable that, cuz that's fun.
Aspect, so this,
I think it only affects Android, and
you can set the aspect ratio for
the image that you're picking.
So let's do just 1, so
it's a square image, and quality.
So I think this is probably from 0 to 1.
Yeah, so we want maximum quality,
so let's go for 1.
So let's just console.log the result and
see what we get.
>> Kadi Kraman: So here,
I'm on a simulator, so
I have these beautiful pre-filled images,
and I'll choose this, and there we go.
So I have, this result has an asset array.
Actually, everyone has their
preferred console logging method.
If I do a JSON, let's do JSON,
stringify, and pass this result null.
Has anyone ever used this function here
to do anything other than passing null?
I have not.
So let's render this a little bit better.
>> Kadi Kraman: Let's use this image,
there we go.
So we get an object that has a key for
assets,
and then assets is an array of images.
So this object has a URI,
which is the location
of the file in my kind of cache folder.
So this is important as well, so this
file that we're picking, so this isn't
permanent, this is just a cached file, but
we can use it while the app is running.
Let's add a useState here for
the image URI,
so imageUri, setImageUri, and
this will be a useState string,
and it can be undefined.
It starts off being undefined.
And let's do if result is not canceled,
if it's not canceled,
then let's do setImageUri,
and this will be results.assets, and
we'll just take the first asset and
its uri.
>> Kadi Kraman: And now we want to
update our Plantly image to be able
to render an image by URI instead.
So this component,
let's parse an image URI.
And go into the PlantlyImage component,
update the prop, so
we can have an optional image URI,
which is the string, and destructure it.
And so in the source, we can do,
if the image URI is provided,
then it will be an object
with URI being the image URI.
And then otherwise,
we render our Plantly placeholder.
>> Kadi Kraman: So let's try that.
>> Kadi Kraman: There we go,
that's updated.
I think this looks a little bit big now,
my plant image had a lot of opacity,
so let's add some styles
to add some padding.
So maybe on the image,
let's add a borderRadius.
>> Kadi Kraman: 6, okay?
And I can't actually add, or rather,
I don't actually want to add any
bottom padding on this image component
because it would then also affect
other places where it's used.
So I think I'll add some padding
here in the PlantlyImage instead.
>> Kadi Kraman: So this touchable opacity,
I mean, this style is called centered,
but I'm just gonna go with it and add
a little margin bottom of, let's say, 24.
>> Kadi Kraman: There you go,
just go around some space between them.